# lab-10-tapping-detection-the-multiplexers
## Based on 16.8.2 “Tapping Detection”

When we tap an object, the force introduces “spikes” in acceleration. With an accelerometer, the tapping can be detected and used as an input. 
In this lab, you will use taps as an input to turn the LEDs on and off. This can be achieved as follows:
- Derive a program to capture the acceleration value during a “tapping event.” For example, send the value of the accelerometer over the UART whenever it changes.
- Record the values generated by tapping several times and derive a pattern for the tapping.
- Once you figure out the tapping pattern in the x, y, and z directions, derive a program that lights up the LEDs depending on how hard a tap is.
- A very light tap should light up 1 LED (i.e. LED0)
- A medium tap should light up a few LEDs (between LED0 and LED14)
- A very strong tap should light up all 16 LEDs (LED0 to LED15).

Clarification: For this lab, the objective is to use the accelerometer chip inside the Nexys A7 FPGA board (the ADXL362 chip) to light up its LEDs based on its detected movement. More specifically, the idea is that when we tap on the surface the FPGA board is on, the chip would sense that tap, and the board would figure out how extreme the tap was through the chip and light up LEDs from right to left based on said intensity. The chip can sense what direction the board is facing. Compared to its default position (when the board is flat on a level surface, with its front face facing up), the chip will let me know the direction the front face of the board is towards in terms of x, y, and z values. When the surface of the FPGA board vibrates, the FPGA board will title or shake a little causing a fluctuation in these x, y, and z values. The program I have made will see how rapid and considerable the changes to these values are and then use these values to determine how many LEDs should light up for the tap that the board sensed.
