For this final project, my partner and me had to do a final project to prove that we had learned the materials taught in this course. To the concepts covered in the course, we have made a slot machine game. For this project, we had to make our FPGA board display graphics onto a VGA monitor. We had to show that we can create moving sprites/object and that we are capable of displaying text on the monitor. We also have to connect either a keyboard or mouse to the board using the PS2 communication protocol. Lastly, the professor made it clear that we also had to include either the use of the SPI communication protocol, I2C protocal, XADC chip, or some Audio I/O cores. For our group project, we had decided that We were going to display our slot machine with the VGA monitor. We used ghost sprites we learned to make in class as our slots. We have also learned how to animate these sprites with the use of a sprite sheet. We could change the color of the ghosts and make them seem like they are moving in place. To satisfy the PS2 communication protocol requirement, we decided to use a mouse to help us control our slot machine. We have also decided it would be interesting to use the I2C communicatio protocol to interact with the time of flight peripheral module we used in the class once before. These last two devices will help us control what kind of actions we want to take in this game. When we start up the game program. the VGA monitor will display on-screen text saying "Gambling Time" and then the three ghosts will appear, changing colors and moving in place for the first few seconds. After this, we can tell the program how much we want to bet into the machine. The right four seven segmen displays how much we much money we want to spend. We use the Pmod to set this amount by placing our hand over the Pmod and creating the distance with our hand which will give us the amount we want on the right side displays. There is no imposed limits on how much money you can bet. We would then have to confirm the option and activate the slot machine with a left click of the mouse. Once we confirm our choice, the money we betted will be added to our jackpot amount which is displayed on the left four seven segment displays, the ghosts will change colors and animate for a bit then show us a final color the ghosts will take for this round. You only win the jackpot if all the ghosts change into the same color. Once you do win the jackpot, the amount on the left seven segment display will reduce to zero and the three ghosts would move in place. The program doesn't end once you win so one can continue to bet into the slot machine if they wish. Anytime during the game, the player can click the right mouse button to clear the current jackpot amount. The idea is that in slot machines, the owner of the slot machine would like to clear out the jackpot after a while so we made this an option on our mouse.
